>> David Khourshid: And so what we're
going to be doing is we're going to jump
into the exercise.
So what I want you to do is go to
anti patterns and go to page TSX and
there's going to be a lot
of different exercises and
hopefully this should be pretty quick for
you to do.
The point is to build
the muscle memory to actually,
to actually avoid these any patterns and
simplify these components
based on what we've learned,
which is the proper use of refs deriving
states instead of duplicating it and
also avoiding redundant states.
So let's go ahead and take a few minutes
and jump into this and let's get started.
All right, so let's go through all
of these anti patterns that again,
I'm sure that you've
seen in your code bases.
And again, these exercises are meant
to get the muscle memory in
your hands of recognizing
these anti patterns and
fixing them so that you could
do it in your own code base.
And I recommend for this exercise and
all of the other exercises,
try to do it in the code bases
that you have access to or
at least try to identify or
search for them.
Honestly, if you search for
use date in your code base,
you're going to see a lot of these.
But okay, so
let's take a look at this first one.
Filter destinations.
Again, we see this
combination useState and
useEffect hook where we're
setting the filter destinations.
What we could do instead is I am going to
do const oops filtered destinations and
I'm just going to directly
compute that in render.
Now I can get rid of this use date and
I got rid of the other useeffect and
it still works with each
of these you could go and
just make sure that
everything still works.
All right, and so for the other exercises,
it's all very similar too.
Again, instead of setting directly
just const total cost and
then get rid of that useeffect and
get rid of that state.
The more code you delete, the better.
This is a very satisfying one to do
just because the pattern will hopefully
stand out to you like a sore thumb and
then you can just immediately do it.
This one is a tiny bit more complicated,
but
only because there's more code over here.
Still not a problem.
We could do const available dates and
get rid of this use dates, get rid of
the use effect because we're already going
to have the updated booked dates inside.
Okay, so now let's go take
a look at some other patterns.
So for example, let's see,
I wanted to see a ref- 1.
Okay, here's a good one.
So this is the same timer example
that we were talking about, you know,
with a booking timer.
Instead of this, let's use a Ref.
So const timerIdRef = useRef.
And then we now have access to that
timerIdRef via timeridRef.current.
And then so
instead of setting it directly over here,
we can just say timerIdRef.current
equals that Id.
And then we could do
the same thing over here.
Since we're clearing the timer,
we could say timer ID
ref current is null and
then we could just clean up the rest.
So we could say this should
be timer ID ref current.
Let's give this a proper type
of NodeJS.Timeout or null.
And then let's also set
timerIdRef.currents.
We'll set that to null and we'll also
change these too for the sake of time.
I'm just using cursor, but
it's essentially the same thing.
We are replacing timer ID with
the timer ID ref.current and so
our effect is now no longer going
to change change multiple times.
So, same thing with
the scroll position tracker.
We could, instead of keeping track of
the last scroll position in use dates,
we could use a ref.
So const last, oops,
LastScrollPositionRef = useRef and
we'll give it a number type.
And this is just going to be zero.
So now we can get rid of this useState and
we could update the Ref instead.
So LastScrollPositionRef.current
= currentPosition over here.
And then so set last scroll position and
then we could just update the rest.
So we are going to get that.
And now we no longer need this use or
actually no,
we still need that use effect, but
we no longer need anything in there,
just because the effect does not
need to rerun whenever the scroll
position changes or sorry,
whenever the last scroll position changes.
So I want to skip ahead to the hotel
selection one that we talked about.
So again, this is a case where
we have redundant states.
We are selecting a hotel instead
of selecting the, you know,
the hotel id,
which makes things a lot simpler.
So instead of this,
we could just select the hotel ID and
then set this to set selected hotel id.
So instead of trying to
grab the type of the hotel,
this is just going to be a string.
And so instead of this, we are going
to be handling the hotel ID instead,
which is going to be a string.
And so we could set the hotel
ID to that hotel id and
now the selected hotel is going to be
derived from the selected hotel id.
So Const selected hotel equals
we have our hotels already,
so hotels and
we're going to find the hotel where
the hotel ID is equal to
the selected hotel id.
And so now we have derived states and
we're preventing just
having redundant states.
And so a similar thing is going
to be done with things like,
you know, these other exercises over here,
this is a pretty common one where we
have our user profile from somewhere,
but we're also trying to manage
the state of each of these components.
And so, you know,
we're trying to set the username and
all of the other fields over there.
>> Speaker 2: We just wanna
use userProfile.name.
>> David Khourshid: Yeah, yeah, yeah,
>> Speaker 2: yeah.
As the we don't even
need to use use state,
we could just reference
the state from up above.
>> David Khourshid: Yeah,
exactly, that's exactly right.
So instead of doing all this, yeah,
you could basically just
use user profile name.
You don't need to pull it in
from me to these useSates.
So then here we have user profile name,
email preferences, budget and
preferences traveltype.
A bit of a contrived example, but yeah,
that just goes to show you that if
you can avoid redundant states,
then you don't really need to have all of
those multiple use dates handling that.
So that's a solution to
a few of these exercises and
the other ones just follow
suits in the same way.
Any questions about any of these
warm up exercises that we did?
Yes,
>> Speaker 3: one thing I try to do is
especially when it comes to static values,
for instance the user profile,
rather than place the whole
object inside of use state,
especially if that entity isn't
going to be change or modified,
since we don't have a set callback or
function passed in here as well,
that to just leave it outside
of the scope of the function.
So instantiate it above the function and
then just reference it inside
kind of a closure, right?
Where we're referencing it outside
of the function, I would imagine.
Would you recommend that over the practice
that's currently happening there?
>> David Khourshid: Yes, I would.
And again, this is a contrived example.
So ideally this user profile
would come from props or
if it does come from somewhere else,
you can bring it in as a closure.
Although I would say just be wary
of closures just because you
want your function to be self
contained and easily testable.
So if you were trying to extract
this component out and test it,
then that closure data might not
be available for whatever reason.
So it might be something where you would
pass it in via context or pass it in via
props but yes, the idea is that in this
case the user profile isn't changing, so
it does not need to be inside of a use
dates, which is another important thing.
I've seen use dates where
there is no setter at all, so
it sort of makes them
a little bit useless.
I think the most important takeaway
here is that you should try to
derive state as much as possible.
So we're going to be seeing that
in other exercises as well,
where that principle
really comes into play.